read01

TEXT EDITOR

TEXT EDITOR ; software that you download and install on
your computer, or you access online through your web browser, 
help you ; write and manage text
the best T.E ; it is personal choice every T.E have some features , 


important features 
code completion
syntax highlighting;
a nice variety of themes  
ability to choose extensions
 


Emmet ; it is the features can make your coding faster ; by shorthand language 

Text edidor already comes with your computer ; 
Text Edit in mac * “Notepad in windows 
if you wants a new text editor with another features, you need to install 

like ; 
NotePad++
TextWrangler/BB Edit (mac)
Visual Studio Code(Microsoft)
Atom(GitHub)
Brackets(Adobe)
Sublime Text

The Command Line :a text based interface to the system .
their are some thing in terminal calls
shell : how the terminal will behave and looks after running (or executing) commands for you. most common one is called bash 
you can kmow what shell do you use ,  command echo 

Shortcuts is availabe to make your coding easier


Navigation
moving around the system
1.pwd: remind yourself where you presently are .
2.ls : or ls [options] [location] ; we can get more details with the second form , 


3.path : get to a particular file or directory on the system.
type of phath are absolute (/)and relative path 
example:
absolute :
ls /home/ryan/Documents
relative  : 
ls Documents
they will get the same result 


path 
~ file name
. /file name
  ../../ (will go back )
4.cd 
note about cd ;If you run the command cd without any arguments then it will always take you back to your home directory


let's summrize 
pwd
Print Working Directory - ie. Where are we currently.
ls
List the contents of a directory.
cd
Change Directories - ie. move to another directory.
** Relative path
A file or directory location relative to where we currently are in the file system.
** Absolute path
A file or directory location in relation to the root of the file system.




More About Files


simple point ,Everything is a File



Linux is an Extensionless System
but 

Windows the extension is important and the system uses it to determine what type of file it is

file command to show file type 
file [path]

Linux is Case Sensitive so be careful when you write 


note ; if we had Spaces in names ,we need to but the name in Quotes or \ instead of Space


Hidden Files and Directories
if the file starts with dote , the system considered to be hidden , we can show these files by command ls -a 
